I sat up abruptly, confused by the empty sky and blazing sun overhead.  I should be recovering from anesthesia on a hospital bed.  Instead, I was sitting on plain, nearly white sand.
In every direction it was the same.  It was eerily uniform and smooth.  Unnatural.  Despite a light breeze in the air, there were no telltale signs of wind ripples in the sand.  Even the horizon looked strange.  It was too flat.
“Hello?”  I called.  No sound came back.
After getting to my feet, I turned around slowly, examining what I could see.  It looked wrong, artificial.  Just endless, featureless sand fading to a wavy heat haze in the distance.
“Hello!” I yelled, then listened.  The faint, warm, unchanging breeze was the only response.
“I died.  Something went wrong in surgery.”
Picking a direction, I started walking.  I needed to think.
“But where am I?”
My life had been cut short.  I’d been raised in a family with no religion.  My friend jokingly called me an “apatheist.”  I didn’t believe in the supernatural or that people really had souls.  So, was this proof I’d been wrong?
“No lake of fire,” I mumbled, “and no angels in a choir.”  It was a rhyme I’d used to sum up my concept of an afterlife.  I’d meant oblivion, not… this.
My mind was wandering.  Memories of my life came easily.  With no distraction, my head was focused on the task.  Each memory came back vividly, and I analyzed them, looking for clues.
Hours went by, then days.  The sun never moved overhead.  I didn’t get hungry or thirsty, and my feet never tired.  There was no sunburn, thank the gods… the light and heat from above were just comforting.
“This can’t be hell, and doesn’t look like heaven,” I said aloud at some point.  “So what is it?”
Just emptiness.  Dry sand.
I delved further into my life’s memories.  There had to be something there.  My heart was on a pendulum between frantic frustration and despair.
I’d been walking for a long time.  Months, maybe?
I stopped moving, arms hung limply at my sides.
Just endless, monotonous sand, except my own trail of footprints behind me.
All energy left me, and I slumped to my knees.
With a finger, I reached out and aimlessly drew shapes around me.
“I must’ve done something wrong.  Must I face an eternity alone?”
I fell to my back, closed my eyes, and tried to sleep.  Maybe I could find oblivion myself.
I listened to the breeze, hoping there was some secret message I’d hear if I could just focus on it.
Was I going mad?
I wanted to cry, but tears didn’t come.
A childhood memory popped up, and I flung my arms and legs wide, swinging them up and down.  I hopped to my feet to see what I’d made there in the sand.  I grinned.
“Ah, you see!  This must be heaven, there’s an angel right there!”
Loneliness was making me feel crazy.  Time to fix that.
The angel was beautiful, and needed friends, so I made some.  I got pretty good at it.  After a few, I started making additions to them.  I crouched beside each one to add details with a fingertip to make them even more perfect.  They received halos, with lines radiating away from them.
Their presence kept me sane.  I felt less alone, just making them.
At one point, I’d gotten a little enthusiastic, lying on my back and kicking hard, and my heel thumped into something firm.
I’d been here a long time and never once thought to see what was under the sand.
“Clay!” I shouted after verifying my discovery.
Everything changed with this new material.  Clay meant sculptures, containers, and tools.  Tablets?  Would I take time to start writing things down, even though nobody would ever read them?
No, I decided.  This was my chance to finally start making a world I wanted to live in.  Clay meant bricks and blocks, for building.  In time, I’d gathered enough to build a small structure, just large enough to crawl inside, and got to experience shade for the first time since I’d died.
“Heaven,” I muttered as I relaxed in the cool single-room building I’d made.
I didn’t stop there, though, pushing all the sand out and working on making a basement by hauling all the clay out in big chunks, molding it into more bricks, and tossing them out onto the sand.
The clay didn’t go down forever, however.  Below it was solid stone.
“Why is it warm?” I asked, my forehead furrowed with confusion.
I exposed more stone, peeling away the clay layer.  It was flat and smooth, like rough-cut granite, and uncomfortably warm.  A deep wrongness radiated from the stone.  The feel of it gave me a sense of dread.
Crawling out of my little hut, I sat and thought.  I couldn’t rely on my understanding from my life.  Through that lens, very little of this place made sense.  Cool clay sitting on hot rock wouldn’t stay that way for long, right?
My thoughts went nowhere useful, though.  I just wouldn’t have a basement.
“Nothing stops me from building more!”
Thus began a fantastically–long brick production line.  Through experimentation, I learned the ideal brick thickness so that they could evenly dry in the perfect, unchanging sunlight.  I used my own hand as a measuring stick, it was accurate enough.  Make a brick, set it to dry, then scoot to the right, clear away sand, and dig into the clay below to repeat.
I stopped after a hundred and went back to check on the first.  Not even close to done, so then I made a thousand, then another.  Then, my first few hundred were ready: time to build.
Without support, I couldn’t build higher than my own waist.  I got creative and made larger, thin blocks that took ages to dry, but added that crucial reinforcement I needed.
Then I remembered what I’d learned about arches.  Arches, stacked together and touching, made a barrel vault.  There was going to be a lot more experimentation to figure out the best way to put a roof on my new house, but it was possible.  The only caulk I had was more clay, but I didn’t have to worry about weather or moisture.  This was the optimal place to build.
When half of the roof caved in, I took my frustration out on some clay tiles I’d made for roofing.  The sound they made while shattering was satisfying.
“I need a break from this…” I said, and selected a new project.
So, I built a road.
It didn’t go anywhere, it was just practice.  But, I wanted an arch going over it, and knew I’d need a wall, first.  So, I built a wall all around my city… a city of one single building with a collapsed roof.  The absurdity made me smile.  But, I got my arch, and it looked pretty good.
I couldn’t guess how many bricks I’d made at this point.  I suppose I could’ve scratched a number into each one as I made them.  Not that it mattered, I was just curious.
With a better handle on constructing arches, I went back to my roof.  Thickening the walls and adding ribs gave enough support that I could complete it.  It was nowhere near strong enough to add another floor, but I had a shady place where I could make pottery and even stand up when I wanted to.
Heading out of my little one-house town, I picked a new, fresh place to clear away sand and start gathering clay.
“Whoa,” I said, finding something new after so long.
I held it up.  Just a pebble.  It was red, not the bland gray of the endlessly uniform clay I’d dug up already.  About the size of a pea.
I just sat there, cradling it in my palm.  I hadn’t seen the color red since before I’d come here.  Such a simple, tiny thing, but it shook me to my core.
Tears trickled down my cheeks, but I was also smiling.  My heart ached to see a sunrise again.
Carefully, I took some clay and flattened it, pressed the little pebble into the middle, then carried it back to my house and placed it on the floor.  Just a tiny speck of color, but it meant so much to me now.
“Sunrise,” I whispered.
“I’ll need more colors,” I said, and went to get more.
My next discovery was just seconds later, quite close to where I’d found the red stone.  It was the size of a jelly bean, and was frosty clear.  Beach glass.  I kept going.
Before long, I had a handful of little treasures.  A piece of turquoise, a flat yellow rock, and even a larger version of the red rock I’d found first.  I needed a way to sort and store them.
I gathered a bunch of bowls of random shapes and sizes that I’d made while experimenting, and set them out in the sand.
The sifting was easy, my fingers had immeasurable experience with the feel of this sand.  I’d hone in on any slight change in texture and pull out a new treasure.  The bowls started to fill, each containing a dominant color, but every pebble was unique.
To my surprise and confusion, I pulled up a fist-sized chunk of shiny black material.  A quick scratch on a nearby brick proved that it was crumbly, and could be used to draw.  An old memory awoke in my mind.
“Anthracite?” I asked.
I was pretty sure that’s what it was, but it didn’t make sense.  You don’t find coal just a few inches down in the desert sand.
Wait, was this a desert?  Maybe this was just an endless beach.
I closed my eyes, listening to the gentle breeze, and tried to hear the waves crashing on the shore nearby.  The scent of salty sea air reached me for a moment.  It was a pleasant fantasy, and I embraced it.
“Sunrise,” I said again, opening my eyes with renewed purpose.
I picked up my bowls of various colored stones and headed inside.  The single red pebble which had inspired me was still here, embedded in a dried-out lump of clay.  Rather than attempt to build on it, I put it off to the side and retrieved a fresh canvas: a block of fresh material that I shaped into a tablet the size of a large book.
Arraying my bowls of pigment around, I got to work on my masterpiece.  In my mind’s eye, the sun was rising over the ocean, and these small specks of color were going to bring it to reality.  Bright yellow and white were there to highlight the radiance and power of the sun.  An array of orange, red, and purple filled the sky, mirrored and offset on the sea below.  I was lost to the work, only stopping when I had run out of room to put another stone.
It was crude, reflecting my lack of experience making art with this medium, but it was undeniably an ocean sunrise, captured as a mosaic.
I heard the faintest whisper of seagulls cawing in the distance, and once again caught a whiff of seawater.
Was I really imagining it?  Or, was it possible that in this place, reality would bend to my thoughts?
Stepping back outside, I again left the walls of my one-building city to examine the horizon in every direction.  The air shimmered in the distance, reflecting the heat from the sand, making any distant view unreliable.
Near the wall, a pile of failed clay bricks were piled up, waiting for me to come up with another use for them.  My best use so far had been as paving stones for when I extended my road beyond the arch, but hadn’t felt any inspiration for that project.  Instead, I used them as they were, a pile of rubble, climbing on top to get a higher view.  From here, I could see over the top of my rough wall and lumpy-roofed hovel.
It wasn’t enough to see over the heat haze, but I suspected that such a thing must be possible.
I hopped down and got to work, rebuilding the disordered heap into something with purpose.  A tower would be ideal, but unstable.  A pyramid would be the most stable, but required exponentially more material the higher I wanted to climb.
“Do I need all that support?” I asked myself.
There was already support nearby.  One of the corners of my “town wall” was just to my left, the corner I’d been thinking of as the northwest corner, though without any movement of the sun, this was arbitrary.  I could just build from there.
Sifting through the rubble, I began extracting all the complete, full-sized bricks.  These were leftovers from building the wall and arch.  I began building a staircase, aimed at the corner of the wall.  It was narrow, and had no overlapping blocks with the structure of the wall, so it wanted to tip side to side.
That was easy to fix, just time-consuming.  I had to deconstruct the wall down to the lowest layer, then begin rebuilding it with the staircase integrated.  I mirrored the staircase ninety degrees to the side, and each layer had one long stone connecting across the intersection.
By the time it was taller than my head, the pattern was obvious and easy to copy.  From afar, it looked like a pyramid.  From above, it was a plus sign.  Basically, four simple staircases all aimed at the center.  Two staircases ended at the sand, the other two were built into the town wall.
I was walking up, carrying another block, when it hit me what to call it.
“Ah, it’s a plus-amid!” I said, chortling to myself.  My dad would’ve loved that.
I continued until it was clear I no longer had enough full blocks left to add another layer.  All the misshapen and broken pieces in the pile had been tossed into the inside corners, adding a bit of extra support.  I could only use full-size blocks for building, and was too impatient to go make more.
Then again, maybe it was already tall enough…
I climbed to the top, perched on the very tip.  There was some wiggle, mainly because the top two layers had very little support from tipping.  The rest was solid, however.  All those years building with Lego had paid off!
Slowly, I turned, looking as far as I could in every direction.  It seemed I could see above the heat haze from this height, but it didn’t help as much as I’d hoped.  But then… there…
I grinned.  Far in the distance, in the arbitrary south-west, a patch of different-colored horizon.  It was water.  It had to be.
I threw my fists into the air and shouted, “Yeah!”
Before I knew I’d done it, I’d dropped into a crouch, hands gripping the stone below me as I looked around.  Some instinct shouted ‘danger!’ at me, as though some predator was swooping down from above.
But, there was nothing there.  Just empty, open blue sky with a sun that never moved.
“Hey!” I yelled.  A phantom echo bounced back to me.  I couldn’t pick it out, but some part of my brain told me something was there.
I scrambled down and grabbed a bowl of unsorted “treasures,” and climbed back up.  With a quick underhand toss, I launched one of my plain gray pebbles up, hearing an unexpected “tink” as it bounced off something and came right back down.  It sounded like it had hit a glass window.
Something invisible?
I tossed another, paying closer attention to when and where it hit.  I’d unintentionally tossed a piece of coal, though, one of those tidbits of anthracite that I’d planned to use for sketching.  It had an added benefit: there was now a black mark in the sky.  Just floating there, unmoving.  I had to know what this invisible thing was.
I spent a while wandering around with handfuls of coal chunks, tossing them and making marks in the sky.
It wasn’t in just one spot, it was everywhere.
“A literal glass ceiling?” I asked.
What was the purpose?  A build limit?
A three-story building might fit under it, assuming I didn’t have to worry about a roof.  Why limit me there?
I couldn’t jump to conclusions just yet, I needed more information.  As much as I wanted to go off on a many-day journey to see the ocean or lake off in the distance, this was a mystery right here, above my head, that needed to be explored.
I didn’t have the patience to make more blocks, and since I didn’t have to add many more layers, I could get away with just building up a single staircase.  The town wall valiantly sacrificed itself to my curiosity.
In no time, I’d added two more layers and climbed up, stretching as far as I could.  I was inches from that first black mark I’d made.  One more layer…
Just to be safe, I reinforced one of the other staircases up to the same height, to get rid of the wobble at the top.  Extracting more wall blocks filled in the rest, and I was right back up there.
I reached up to rub the black mark off, but the sky rippled as soon as I touched it.  It felt like glass, but the image rippled like a pool of water.  A hole formed in the center, widening until I could see above.
The “sky” was just a projection, a fake screen.  There was another floor above me… no, another world.
A man was sitting next to the opening, cross-legged with his chin on his fist, as though he’d been waiting for a long time.  He gave me a crooked grin.
“Took ya long enough,” he said.
“Dad?” I said, my voice cracking.